Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we will be implementing the power ups.
First off, let's go ahead and let's set up the power ups inside our game parameters.
I'm going to create a constant and I'm going to call it power up.
So is power up is up.
So pup underscore chance.
And we are going to set it to one first, at first, and this is the probability of a power of purbrick
hit.
You know what?
I'm just going to copy it from here, the comment, and I'm going to put it right there.
So the next thing that I'm going to create is going to be the speed at which the power up moves and
we're going to put a zero point one five and a right.
And then we are going to get a power, a bonus pop and bonus.
And the bonuses, for example, whenever you have it, or you already have a power up.
And it is going to be this is the score that you're going to get if you get a second power up in a row.
So I'm going to show you the bonus.
So let's reduce the audio.
So there you can see that we have a super power up.
So if I get it now, the ball is going to kill all of those.
And OK, I couldn't show you show it to you there.
So I hope hopefully I can show it to you now.
So let's see.
Let's wait.
I'm going to reset the game.
So let's go ahead.
I should get a sticky first so I can show you what what actually I mean, whenever you hit, the score
is going to get increased by 50.
So the chance is 10 percent like there is a 10 percent chance that whenever you had to break a brick,
you're going to get a power up.
So out of an average out of 10 bricks, one of them is going to have a power up inside of them.
So that's what the zero point one means.
Perfect.
So give me a power up, there is a chance I mean, that is just chance.
Got three there and, uh.
There we go.
So this should give me an extra life.
Oh, I couldn't get it if.
I can say that is bad luck.
I am I have to get one so I can show you what I mean by that.
Except for the life, the life is not going to do that, OK?
Now the speed is bigger, so the speed has increased.
So you should be able to get.
Something you now the life, it doesn't matter how many lives you get, how many life power ups it is
going to just give you.
So now I have gotten the extension power up and I have to finish my other sentence.
It doesn't matter how many life paragraphs you get as when you get the balls are going to increase the
number of balls for the rest of the three.
If you get like two power ups in a row, for example, I have gotten the extension power up.
If I get the extension power up again, the width of the power is not going to get increased.
But as a bonus, I'm going to get 50 points.
All right.
That that is what the bonus actually means.
I'm going to show it to you.
So I'm sure I will find another one.
The speed is increase, so it should be close.
I'm not doing a home run.
Should the home run?
Here we go.
That is the super if I get that, then everything is going to be messed up, so I'm not going to get
it.
I could get this sticky.
Sticky is good, actually.
So I'm not going to get the super or if I ever have gotten it, then I would have gotten this one as
well.
But I'm not.
Because I have to show it to you how the 50 years is increasing.
I probably should have increased the chance, so if I couldn't get it in this round, I'm going to increase
the chance.
Boy, so all super.
Super Bowls.
Oh, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to increase the chance, so power of chance, I'm going to
set it to one which is 100 percent so in on each brick, you are going to get that power.
So I've gotten one extension right now.
If I get another one, except for the life, I should get 50 points.
So you can see I've gotten one life, and if I get the second one, the score is not going to increase,
but the ball is going to increase.
Oh, there are so many lives like that.
So the life is seven out of three, so there we go.
This is a sticky one, sticky, and now I'm going to grab that.
And if I do this, it is going to destroy all of them.
And I already have one sticky, right.
So if I grab another sticky, the score should go from whatever it is to something like big.
So I'm just going to hit that.
So this is a.
So we have seventy-one.
It should be one to any one.
There we go.
This is what I was looking for and it took me so long.
Perfect.
So that's that's what we say, by the chance, and the bonus.
OK, and just I just had to show it to you, so let's go ahead and let's actually create a an object.
So I'm going to come on beneath our direction and in here I'm going to say consed pop type.
So this is going to be our object.
Inside this object, we have X 10 Schenn.
We have extension for the extension.
I'm going to create another small object.
The extension is going to have our power ups is going to have a property of color and a property of
symbol.
You can change the color and you can change the symbol as well.
So for the extension, I'm going to put in an equality sign.
Next up, we have our life.
So for life, we are going to put it to Korrell.
Coral, and it is going to be a plus sign.
Perfect, then we are going to have oh we should add comis here.
Perfect.
This is an object and then we have sticky, so for this sticky, the color is going to be light green,
so light see green, you can't change the color and the symbol is going to be Telx Day or Squiggly Little
Tilde or whatever.
And then we have our super.
Now, this is the superman of this, the all of these balls.
And this is going to be hot pink.
And finally this the symbol is going to be.
Yes, of course.
What else could be the symbol?
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead to our new ball function.
Where is our new Kneubuhl function?
Have we even created.
There we go.
So in here, what I want to do is I want to reset after each game.
I want to reset all of the power ups.
So resetting the power ups after each game.
Perfect.
OK, so.
Power ups, so I'm going to grab the pump extension, which we have created before in a few in back
a few lectures, then I'm going to grab the pump sticky and I'm going to say false.
And then we are going to grab the pump super and set it to false.
All right, after that, let's go up to our new level and in here I'm going to create a Pops array.
I'm going to initialize it.
So have we created that here?
So we have.
We should create that array first here, so I'm going to create it so this is going to contain all of
our power ups or pops, and then we are going to come to our is our where were we?
We were inside our new level.
So this is new level.
So on top of there, what I want to do is I want to let's let's I'm going to come in to try to reset
the Pops array, reset the pops to an empty array.
OK, so Pops is equal to an empty array.
And then let's go ahead and let's create the class, so underneath everything, I'm going to create
the power up class.
So in here I'm going to say the the power of class.
So it is going to be class power up.
Perfect.
Are going to have a constructor X Y size and the type.
So we are going to have this study is going to be equal to size because basically we want our power
ups to be squares, so the height and the width are going to be equal.
So size is going to be height is also going to be size.
The exposition is going to be equal to X.
This Y is going to be equal to Y.
This type of the power up is going to be able to type and finally this.
Now, what do the how do the power ups they travel they travel from top to bottom, say only they have
only one worldwide velocity.
So it is going to be pop speed times the height.
So the larger the height, the faster they move, the faster the speed, the smaller the height, the
slower the speed.
That's exactly what we want.
So we have done that as well.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to go into our bricks because that's where the power ups are
going to originate from and we are going to create power ups.
So let's go ahead and let's go to our update.
Bricks function inside the update.
Bricks function right after this if statement.
And I'm going to say creating a pump or a power up.
So now everything, all of these power ups, they're going to be created randomly.
So we are going to say math that.
Random and if math, the random is less than or equal to the pop chance, if it is less than or equal
to that not, what do we want to do?
First off, let's grab the power UPS exposition and we are going to grab our bricks and we're going
to pass and I and J.
Dot left.
Plus, I'm going to copy this bricks.
You are going to repeated many times, plus the bricks with times to break with divided by two.
So each of the power ups, they're going to originate from the center of the brick horizontally.
We are going to say that vertically as well.
So this is going to be palp, hurry, Lokey, hurry, Lokey.
All right, and this is going to be Pop Verrity Lokey.
OK, I know it's Lucy, but I'm going to say Lokey, so for the vertical, we are going to say BRICS
top.
So let's put a top plus the BRICS high to half of the BRICS, right, so they should originate from
the center right.
And let us grab the size of the leather, specify that.
So I'm going to print put in our BRICS array and the size is going to be the size of the BRICS with
time zero point four.
This is just the size and we are going to grab the reason that we are using these BRICS locations is
because whenever the screen is bigger or smaller, the power, for example, if the screen is this small,
we don't want the power ups.
When you hit this screen, we don't want the power of to show up here.
We want the power of to shop wherever that BRIC has been hit.
It doesn't matter what the screen sizes.
So now let's go ahead and let's say the key, first off, I'm going to say power of keys and this is
the object that we have created on top.
And you know that we have an object function, which is called object, ironically.
And it is going to we have talked about object that keys values in that.
And we never used it in a real world context.
This is the first time that we are using it and then we are going to pass in our type and each individual
key is going to be called to pick keys, keys.
And from there we need to grab somehow one of those power ups, one of the types randomly.
So we are going to say math dot floor to give us a whole integer and we are going to say math are random.
Let's open up brackets, times, the keys, the length.
So as many times as there are as many items as there are or as many keys as there are in that object,
that many random numbers you're going to get.
What is this?
All right, so this is the reason that I'm doing it this way is because it is dynamic.
So in case now you have four and you're going to get four random numbers for random turns in case you
want to add, for example, six more power ups than the pub type is going to have and is going to contain
10 keys for each of the keys.
You're going to randomize the lock, randomize the selection of each of these power ups.
So this has created dynamically.
You have to keep this in mind that whenever you do something, whenever you do some sort of code, you
need to keep in mind the maintainability of that code and not in this case.
It is not called maintenance.
It is called scalability.
It means that how that code can be scaled up, you can see that with only changing one parameter, we
can easily change the number of columns, the number of breaks.
We can change the gap.
That's why we create all the game parameters.
If you change any of these, you can change basically the entire game.
That's a good thing.
That is called scalability.
And you need to keep that in mind whenever you are creating your applications.
So we are going to grab the pups array and we are going to push to it a new power up.
This is where our power of class is coming, the X, so we need to pass an X.
It is saying it right here.
So if you listen to Vas code, it is going to teach you everything that you need.
So it is going to tell you what this power up is going to require.
It is going to require an X location, which is going to be.
And then you can see the Y is underlined.
So P, y and then size, which is going to be the P size and then the power of type.
So in the power up you are just going to pass and the pecky whichever key that may be.
So we are done with this one as well.
So let's go ahead and let's actually draw our power ups.
So I'm going to come up to our two here.
All right.
And in here we are going to draw them.
So right underneath that, I'm going to say draw pups.
And where should we draw them so under the panel, so where is our draw Padel right underneath here.
Let's go ahead and draw them.
So draw pops function.
Now, the function name is dropoffs.
Perfect.
No parameter and let's see what we want to do here.
So we want to basically draw squares, right?
So first off, we need to provide it now because the squares, they are hollow.
They just have a line through them.
So we are just going to say context line with a line, not throw them around them.
But we are going to say the line should be telling Wall Times zero point two.
And if the wall is bigger, those power ups are going to be bigger.
If the wall is smaller, the power ups are going to be smaller.
I'm going to increase it to four.
Right.
And we are going to see what this is going to give us.
So now we are going to iterate over that array of pups that we just populate it.
And then for each of the iterations, we are going to create a pup or a power up.
So for Aulet.
Let pop of pups array, and each time we are going to create one pop, so Conex start Phil style.
So it is this is the loop variable, pop type, dot color.
So this is going to be the color and then we have a stroke as well.
So that stroke style.
And we have a pop dot, whichever type it is, dot color as well.
So for the stroke style, we are going to have the same color.
Then let's call the context and we are going to say stroke rect.
All right, and in here, so first off, we are going to pass and the exposition, the exposition is
going to be the pup's exposition, minus because we want to center it at that position.
We need to subtract from it its width at its height.
So we are going to say papped w time zero point five.
This is the exposition pop dot y minus pop dot h time zero point five.
This is the Y position.
Poveda W is going to be there with pop dot H is going to be the night after that, I'm going to grab
the font.
So this is going to be the thing that we write inside of it.
So I'm going to say that it should be bold and let's grab our dollar sign and we're going to say so
we are going to say pop dot h is going to be the height.
I'm not going to.
Well, originally I did it zero point seven five, but I'm not going to multiply it by that because
I decreased it.
And this is something that I noticed in our final game.
So if I come to here and if I if I come here and if I try to.
Play this and if we get a power up by chance.
It is going to be very small.
I don't want it to be small yet, it's like so small that that the user cannot even hope so.
I am going to increase the chance.
OK, so the chance I'm going to put it to zero point, I'm going to put it to one, you know what one.
So if I click now, I can see that is the power up you.
And I'm not sure if the user is even bigger is ever going to be able to see that.
So I just want to increase the size of that.
That's what I'm actually doing here.
Right.
And.
OK, so this is going to be decided, we are going to toggle this, we are going to check if that that
is big or that is small and what is the suitable amount.
And then we are going to pass in our font as well.
So text font, perfect.
After that, let's align it.
So dot text a line and I'm going to say center, so let's do center.
And after that let's grab our context and fill the text.
So text fill filled text.
So in here, first off, we need to pass in the text string.
So pop type dot symbol is going to be that and we need to pass in the exposition which is going to be
pop dot x and we need to pass in the Y position, which is going to be pumped at Y.
So we are done with Drawing the Pops.
Next up, let's go ahead and let's update the pups, so I'm going to come.
Where should we go ahead and update our pups?
So right in here we are going to create a function of date pups.
And we are going to create this function right down here, so we have our updated score.
So on top of the update score, I'm going to create that function.
So let's copy it.
Let's put it right here.
All right, so I'm going to call this a date, perhaps perfect.
OK, so let's create the function of date pops up date.
Perhaps.
This is missing and I.
So what we are going to what we are going to do inside the update pops inside the update Pops, we are
basically doing two things.
One, we are providing a specific speed for our pops.
And two, we want to delete the pops when they go off screen.
So we are going to say four letters are equal to now because the pups are coming down.
We are going to iterate over the Pops array from the from the other side or from the from the back in
reverse.
In simple terms, you are going to look through it in reverse.
So this is going to be minus one and the eye is going to be greater than or equal to zero.
And each time the iterates you are going to reduce documented by one.
So now let's grab our Pops array and passan the eye y position.
We are going to add on to the Y position.
The pups that I variable of the loop times y v and this is going to be pixels per second, so let's
change it to pixel per frame and this is going to be a little slow.
So I'm just going to multiply it by 20.
So and finally, we want to delete pops when they go off screen.
Delete.
If the pops, any of the pops, so we need to iterate over that again, so if any of the Pops y position
is.
Is is less than the pup's height, and if the white position of them is less than the height of them
plus sorry, height, why should a woman passing times point five or hour?
If I'm just going to reiterate this, I'm a little tired.
That's why I did I'm not explaining this very well.
If the pups why location is less than the pups high times point five sorry.
Minus that if that is in that entire thing is less than the height of the canvas.
So the Y position minus half of the height is less than the height of the canvas.
We are going to grab the pups away and we are going to call the splice method.
The splice is going to grab is an index which is going to be I and the number of the delete count,
which is going to be one.
So we have created this as well, and next up, let's go ahead and let's actually go ahead and collect
the pups as well.
So let's see if we can see any pups.
So there we go.
So that is the pup.
You can see that it is bigger now.
You can see that we cannot collect it.
It is going directly through this, through the paddle.
Right.
So we need to be able to collect the pups as well.
And after we collect it, we are going to play that amazing audio as well.
So I'm thinking that I should do that in our next lecture because it's been almost twenty seven minutes.
I'm a little tired, so I'm going to take a break, not to mess anything up.
And next lecture is actually going to be our final lecture.
So I want to like finish big.
So that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.